# Data Collection Framework

We developed a data harvesting framework to collect and consolidate a dataset used to calculate C_(kWh,mat) for a wide range of storage media. The collected datasets comprise two main components, material price data and physical properties of storage media. The physical properties (e.g. specific heat, battery voltage, specific yield strength, etc.) are used for calculation of energy densities that can be combined with the storage medium material prices to calculate C_(kWh,mat).  The data collection framework is outlined in the Figure below. The framework consists of an series of sequentially run Python scripts that extract and process raw data from a wide range of publicly available sources into a consistent format that can then be consolidated into a final price and physical properties database. The input data are kept as close as possible to their raw form (e.g. PDF files) and the code is automated to produce the final figures and data presented in this work without manual processing steps. This approach ensures reproducibility and transparency as the data processing steps are explicitly laid out in the codebase that can be found on the associated GitHub repository, along with the final dataset in CSV form. The details of processing steps for each source are also qualitatively described in individual ‘readme’ files associated with that source, which are consolidated and reproduced in the supporting information. Because of the wide range of processing steps specific to each source and storage medium type, we avoid outlining details of the data sources or processing that aren’t necessary for a general understanding of the results and refer the reader to the supporting information for details on the processing of each source. 

![Figure 1: A schematic showing the data collection framework to generate the dataset used in this study. The datasets for individual sources are formed with data extraction (e.g. pulling data from pdf tables) followed by data processing to a common format of two csv files, SM_data.csv and mat_data.csv. SM_data.csv contains the definitions of storage media including their constituent materials and physical properties used for calculating the overall specific price and energy density of the storage medium, respectively. mat_data.csv contains specific prices of individual materials. The individual datasets are then consolidated into final dataset files, and C_(kWh,mat) is calculated for each storage medium. Final plots presented in this work are then generated with an automated series of scripts and laid out into final figures with files in SVG format. Storage media datapoints plotted with material cost and energy density. ](../../figures/output/data_flowchart.drawio.png)